# Testing auto generation for Swagger documentation

This is a simple repository, which purpose is to test how simple it can be to automaticaly generate Swagger documentation in a project.

## The files
I started by creating a `some_project_src` directory, supposingly containing some files belonging to a project.  
Then came the `swagger_ui_dist` directory, containing the files from the [Swagger UI project's `dist` directory](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui/tree/master/dist). I just added the `api.json` file, which is the OpenAPI description of the project, and updated the `index.html` to point to this file.  
The `swagger.php` file is a simple file calling Swagger to generate the `api.json` file.  
The `.github/workflows` will contain our workflow.

## The Swagger
In this example, I started a PHP project, and so used the [`zircote/swagger-php`](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php) project to generate the OpenAPI description file (located at `swagger_ui_dist/api.json`).

## The main purpose for GitHub Action
The idea here is to write a workflow that automaticaly generates the documentation on push.  
So it must call the `swagger.php` file, and the auto-commit the new `api.json` into the branch actually pushed.

## How to test this repository ?
You can fork this repository. Then just clone it and update the Swagger annotations. When you commit it, you should see an Action running in the "Actions" pannel.  
If you wish to check that the documentation correctly generated, just run `composer install` and `php swagger.php`. When you open the `swagger_ui_dist/api.json`, you should see the same thing as the file auto-generated by the workflow.